---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "I'm a little late to the bandwagon, but I'm dumping office software."
date:   2015-06-06 12:14:02
---

I attended the previous two Texas-Linuxfests, and had the pleasure of talking to a couple of the LibreOffice developers.  As a fan of LibreOffice, it came as a surprise to me when they mentioned that there is a lot of hate towards their software, saying it lacked versatility. 

My visceral reaction was that of the standard \*nix user when anything he likes is insulted: Blame the Microsoft propoganda machine.  

This is generally a fair strategy.  I mean, with [Steve Ballmer saying thinks like "Linux is a Cancer"](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2001/06/02/ballmer_linux_is_a_cancer/), and [self-commissioned studies indicating Windows is "cheaper"](http://www.computerworld.com/article/2578868/operating-systems/idc--windows-cheaper-than-linux-in-some-scenarios.html), they've done a relatively decent job ensuring that they become an easy target for any computer enthusiast.

Anyway, tangents aside, I never considered any other reasons to why people might be critical to LibreOffice until last Tuesday, when coworker started explaining the advantages of LaTeX typesetting to me. 

I've been using LaTeX for awhile to format equations, but it never really clicked with me that people use it for documents, though I guess it makes sense; this is my first academic job, and apparently academics get a big boner for typesetting.  

So I redid my resume. 

I don't think I will ever go back to word processing. 

### What are the Advantages?
#### Version Control

Something that's always annoyed me about standard office-files was the fact that they're encoded binary style.  I mean, I know that DocX works by zipping XML, but the container is still binary, and doesn't version very well.  

Since LaTeX is done entirely in plain text, I can happily version control my resume.  I can add and delete features items whenver I want, and have the entire thing stored on Github.  

#### Scalability

I feel like I have so much more ability to change and theme the document.  I can just reassign one variable and change the entire color-theme of the document.  I can dynamically scale text vertically and horizontally on the page, and I can add a new section rest-assured that my document will properly scale and handle it. LaTeX figure out page numbers for the sections, and generate table of contents for me with no work. 

#### I can use Vim. 

I pretty much live in the terminal nowadays.  My brain is programmed for the Vim and Tmux keystrokes, and I generally prefer that interface over some crowded GUI. 

### Conclusion 

I urge you guys to try out LaTeX. In a pretty short amount of time, I really have no plans on leaving.  
